[CompareTheWord](https://comparetheword.app)

# CompareTheWord

A modern, minimalist web application for side-by-side Bible translation comparison. 

Engineered for extreme performance and low resource consumption, the application utilizes a decoupled architecture capable of running comfortably on a 1GB memory footprint.

## Architecture

* **Frontend:** Next.js (App Router) styled with Tailwind CSS, utilizing Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR) and strict caching policies.
* **Backend API:** A highly concurrent Rust backend using the Axum framework and `sqlx`.
* **Caching Layer: (WIP)** In-memory caching via the `moka` crate, keeping database queries to near-zero for frequently requested verses.
* **Database:** PostgreSQL 15, seeded via static SQL mounting.
* **Proxy:** Nginx, handling routing and SSL via Docker networking.

## Deployment Strategy

This project utilizes a Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) pipeline via GitHub Actions. 

1. Code pushed to the `main` branch triggers parallel builds of the Next.js and Rust environments.
2. Optimized Docker images are pushed to the GitHub Container Registry (`ghcr.io`).
3. The production server pulls the lightweight pre-built images, ensuring zero compilation overhead or memory spikes on the host machine.

## Running in Production

**Prerequisites:**
* Docker and Docker Compose
* A `seed.sql` file generated by the `cpw-db-seeder` repository, placed in `./data/seed.sql` Can be found at: https://github.com/drewbobsen/cpw-db-seeder/releases/download/v1.0.1/seed.sql

**1. Authenticate with GHCR:**
```bash
docker login ghcr.io -u <your-github-username>
```

**2. Boot the Database:**
Start the database first and allow it to complete it's startup. It will use the seed.sql file to fill the database.

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d db
```

**3. Book the Application:**
Once the database is up and running, start the fronend, API and Reverse Proxy.
```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```
## Updating the Application
To deply new code without downtime:
```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml pull

docker compse -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```


